> #### This course is mainly about IR

<br>
<br>


> I was absent for many days... missed out on many interesting things. ;(
> First unit is completed
>
> :warning: CA on Friday :skull:

<br>
<br>


<br>
<br>


### Summary of Unit 1

<br>

IR Phases:


1. Pre incident prep

2. Detection of incident

3. Containment (Isolate the affected sytem from the rest of the assets)

4. Eradication (remove the root cause of the incident)

5. Recovery

6. Doccumentation / Lessons learned.

<br>

- PS Tool

---


<br>
<br>
<br>

## Unit 2

<br>
<br>

- Data Acquisitions Funcdamentals (Topic for the day)

- Kind of data to be acquired:

1. Volatile

2. Non volatile

Two typez of acquisition:

1. Live Acquisition(System is powered ON)

2. Dead Acquisition(Static, system is powered OFF)

<br>

### Order of volatility

- The data in caches/registry is  covered first, then the daat residing in the disk

<br>
<br>

### Rules of thumb for Data Acquisition

1. We can't perform any operation on original media, creata a copy of it.

2. Create more than 1 copy (atleast min 1)

3. Clean media should be chosen for creating thr copy of acquired assets. (Sanitisation of media)

4. Find the integrity

<br>
<br>

## Type of acquisition (based on time constraint)

1. Logical Acquisition(if target to be acquired is clear)

2. Sparse Acquisition(collect data fragments unallocated/deleted space)

3. Full Acquisition(collecting everything)

<br>
<br>

## Data acquisition format

1. Raw (dd utility - data duplication) ( drawback - no compression)

2. Proprietary (using a commercial tool) (can't be  openedd with any other tool __like FTKimager__ )

3. Advance (opened with any tool) (AFF)

<br>
<br>
<br>

> extebsions : .afm and .afd (disk images)
> .pst : personal storage table

<br>

## Types on Bit stream copy

1.  Bit-Stream Disk-to-Image (in same system)(drwaback: in case of system crash, everything is lost )

2. Disk-to-Disk (data is stored in another hard disk)


<br>
<br>
<br>

## Data Acquisitions Methodology

- Depends upon time constaint.

<br>
<br>

## Data Acquisitions tools

<br>
<br>

- Some constraints to be checkeed befote chossinga tol.

<br>


## Steps for Data Acquisition

1. Select method (Data Acquisition)

2. Select tool (Data Acquisition)

3. Sanitize the target media using some standards [like NIST SP 800-88, Russian: VSITR, etc]. (all sectors must be 0000)

4. Acquire the volatile data.

5. Enable write protection

6. Acquire non-volatile data (using utilities like `dd`, `FTKImager` )

7. Plant for contingency (Imaging)

8. Validate Data Acquisition (`Get-Filehash` in powershell )



<br>
<br>

> ___Bit-stream___ copy VS ___qualified Bit-Stream copy___
>
> Difference between sanitize and deletion.


---

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

### Practical using __FTK Imager__ tool

<br>
<br>

1. Keep one jpg file, one pdf file in pendrive.

2. Delete both

3. Create one image of pendrive


-  Steps for that

1. File >>

2. Create disk Image >>

3. Select logical drive >>

4. Select the harddrive, Pendrive, etc of whose image is to be created. >>

5. Finish

6. Click on ADD

7. Select destination type (E01 - Evidence format, SMART - for proprietary)

8. Fill the details. (Case number, Evidence number, etc)

9. Select Destination folder and give a filename

   9.1 Image file name is (names of image file segments)

10. Finish 

11. Start

12. Validate


Also did recovery,

Everything is stored in a video [HERE](./recovery.mkv)





---

<br>
<br>


CA - till Logical structure of disk of unit 2


