# What is security incident?


<br>
<br>
<br>

>unlawful, inauthorized or unacceptable action.

<br>
<br>

- Case studies.

<br>
<br>
<br>

Points:

```text

- Embezzlement : White collar crime

- 

```

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

# Computer Forensics

<br>
<br>
<br>

- A procedure or technique to identify, gather, preserve, extract, interpret, document and present evidence from computing equipment.


<br>
<br>

### Objectives

<br>
<br>

1. prosecte the perprators

2. gather evidence of cyber crimes in a forensically sound manner

3. determine the intent of the perpetrator

4. minimize tangible and intangible losses

5. protect the org fro similar incidents in the future

---

<br>
<br>
<br>

## Types of Cyber attacks

<br>
<br>

1. `Insider Attack`

2. `External Attack`

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>


# Cybercrime Investigation

<br>
<br>

Types of CSI:

1. Civil (no involvement of polics/org)

2. Criminal - Police will decide

3. Administative - Org will decide

<br>
<br>

- read on `IT Act` for all kinds  of attacks related to computer security. 

- In 2009, ammendments are made introducing word substitution of `Digital Signature` with  `Electronic Signature` (Ammendment of section 1).

- 94 sections, 13 chapters, 4 ammendments in IT Act.

- Section 56 is for Hacking.

- Digital Signature Section 5, 66F.

<br>
<br>



# Introduction to Digital Evidence

<br>
<br>

- Has probative value

- found out while examining, storage, monitoring media, etc.

- circumstatial and fragile in nature.

- Locard's Exchane Principal


<br>
<br>

Two types of digital evidence:


1. Volatile

2. Non volatile


<br>
<br>
<br>

### Sources of potential evidence

<br>
<br>

- User-Created Files

- User-Protected Files (compressed, misnamed, encrypted, etc)

- Computer-Created Files (logs, history, printer spools, config files)


<br>
<br>
<br>

### Rules of Eviednce

<br>
<br>

1. Understandable

2. Admissible

3. Authentic

4. Reliable

5. Complete


<br>
<br>
<br>

### Best Evidence Rule

<br>

- The court only allows Original evidence of a document, photograph, or recording at the trail than the copy.

- The Original Evidence is considered as the best evidence. `Best is the First copy of the original evidence.`

- The copy of bes evidence is `Working Copy` that is provided to all.

<br>
<br>
<br>


### Role of SOC

<br>
<br>

- They trigger emergency things based on activities.


---

<br>
<br>
<br>


- Computer Security IR is divided into 2 teamas:

1. CIRT

2. SOC

<br>
<br>
<br>

---

<br>
<br>
<br>

### Forensic Readiness and Business Continuity

<br>
<br>
<br>

- Ability to optimally use digital evidence.

#### Forensics Readiness Planning

1. Identify the potential evidence

2. Determine sources of evidence

3. Define a policy to determine a pathway to lagally extract electronic evidence

4. Establish a policy to handle and store the acquired evidence

5. Identify if incident requires full or formal investigation

6. Create a process for documenting the procedure.

7. Establish a legal advisory board to guide the investigation process

8. Keep an incidence response team ready to reserve and preserve the evidence.

<br>
<br>
<br>
